One Voice
#########
:slug: one-voice
:date: 2005-04-20 16:09
:category:
:tags: english

Yesterday our recently elected CIO paid us a little visit for the first
time. The entire IT team attended the hour long meeting where the CIO
very eloquently explained his plan for the entire IT organization (which
is actually made up of several smaller IT groups throughout the Board of
Education). In the end he “opened up the floor” for questions and/or
comments. For a grueling 10 seconds nobody uttered a word. Being that I
was genuinely interested in what he had just said, I stepped up to the
plate and fired my first of three questions. Basically I challenged the
current state of our policies and standards governing the development of
software within our group. I told him they were very obsolete and
inadequate, often causing a lot of distress amongst the developers
around here. Sometimes something as simple as adding a new feature to
Crystal Reports (for instance, the functionality of exporting existing
reports to PDF format) could take 2+ days coupled with several emails
for request and approval. By the time said feature was installed I had
already forgotten the original reason for installing it in the first
place! He was very diplomatic on his response and acknowledged that some
actions will be necessary in order to bring our organization up to speed
with technological advances, but always keeping in mind our standards.
My following questions were about the availability of any document
generated by the newly created IT steering committee (with the sole
purpose of investigating, proposing, and implementing the necessary
changes to improve our organization) and if the organization had ever
considered Open Source as an alternative to some of the outdated systems
we have.

Apparently, I left a good impression in everyone present including some
of the directors. Only 2 other directors asked questions besides me…
Walking back to my cubicle I was greeted by several co-workers and
directors, who congratulated me for “having the balls” to speak up in
front of everyone… The truth was that I didn’t do it to provoke anyone
or show that I “have balls.” I simply did it because I felt the need to
investigate how much the CIO was willing to go in order to achieve his
plan!

About 10-15 minutes later, as I’m being harassed by my ex-cubicle mate
with sarcastic comments about my “performance” earlier, the VP walks in!
He excused himself and asked if I had a few minutes to spare. We quickly
got rid of my annoying (but inoffensive) friend and got to business. He
asked me about my ideas on what could be done in order to improve our
policies and seemed to be genuinely interested in my ideas. I tried to
back up my points with real examples and that may have helped me “drive
the home.” We had a very good conversation about our policies and a
quick hint at the role that Open Source may have at our organization. I
have been told by a good friend that he’s very fond of Linux et all.
When we talked about the constant virus threat Internet Explorer users
face and how it could be better controlled with
`FireFox <http://www.mozilla.org/products/firefox/>`__, he told me that
he is a `FireFox <http://www.mozilla.org/products/firefox/>`__ user and
has even gone to the point where he’s started talking to our Operations
group about a possible implementation of said browser! In the end I
asked him if we could meet at a different date so I could show him a
little bit more of Linux (my laptop running
`Ubuntu <http://www.ubuntulinux.org>`__) and some Open Source
applications (`OpenOffice <http://www.openoffice.org/>`__,
`Evolution <http://www.gnome.org/projects/evolution>`__,
`Gimp <http://www.gimp.org/>`__, `Imendio
Blam <http://www.imendio.com/projects/blam/>`__,
`F-Spot <http://www.gnome.org/projects/f-spot>`__, `Monkey
Bubble <http://home.gna.org/monkeybubble/screenshots.html>`__, etc). My
appointment is scheduled for tomorrow at 4:00pm! :)
