LWE 2006 - Day 1
################
:slug: lwe-2006-day-1
:date: 2006-04-05 01:50
:category: English
:tags: english

Pheeeew!Ã‚Â  What an amazing day I had today!Ã‚Â  Got up really early
and after grabbing a quick breakfast, drove down to South Boston to the
Linux World Expo at the “new convention center” as it is called around
here.Ã‚Â  Together with my buddy Vinny, we quickly set things up and got
it all started by playing some Swing music… the Fedora guys appreciated
it!Ã‚Â  ;)Ã‚Â  Shortly after people started to come in… at first as a
slow trickle with a handfull of people stopping by to thank us (in
behalf of the Ubuntu community) for the great work we’ve done and to
grab a free copy of the 600 CDs I brought in with me… and then, as a
stream ravaging stream!Ã‚Â  Holy cow!!!Ã‚Â  We were completely
surrounded by great people who wanted to tell us how much they liked the
distribution!Ã‚Â  We had a guy from BitDefender tell us how we were
“responsible” for him ending a 6 year “relationship” with FreeBSD in
favor of Ubuntu… or this really nice guy from Novell who proclaimed his
love for our distro, even though he had access to Suse and Novell’s own
flavor of Linux!Ã‚Â  Around 1 pm we had already given out most of the
CDs and were down to the last box of 50!Ã‚Â 
`Mako <http://mako.cc/copyrighteous/>`__ who happened to be talking to
people about his upcoming book “The Official Ubuntu Book”, suggested we
started charging $1 per CD so to make them last a little longer…Ã‚Â  in
less than 40 minutes those were gone too!

Around 4 pm I finally managed to find some free time to walk around the
exposition floor and managed to strike a sponsorship deal with `Apress
Books <http://www.apress.com/>`__ and `Linux Journal
Magazine <http://linuxjournal.com/>`__, who pledged to provide me with
free books and subscriptions to some events I’m planning for the near
future!

Got home late (after stopping by a restaurant on our way back) and
realized I left my USB cable for my camera at the convention center…
will have to upload them tomorrow…

Anyone in the Boston area with some spare Breezy CDs please contact me…
