Helping downstream translations swim upstream: Part 1
#####################################################
:slug: helping-downstream-translations-swim-upstream-part-1
:date: 2010-04-20 15:10
:category: English
:tags: english

***Sometimes, contributing back to upstream open source projects is not
as straight forward as one may think. “Helping downstream translations
swim upstream” will be a new series of articles where I intend to
explain the issues contributors may face when attempting to send
translations back to upstream projects, and hopefully, devise a couple
of possible solutions.***

In the past few years we have seen an astonishing growth of companies
that started using Free and Open Source Software (FOSS) bits and pieces
in their products. From netbooks, desktops, handheld and infotainment
devices, televisions, and cellular phones, FOSS applications have become
the founding blocks for several companies trying to leverage its power
and stability.

During the process of incorporating open source projects into their
products, it is not uncommon for these companies to modify the user
interface of the packages they’re using. Sometimes, longer messages need
to be simplified to fit devices with a smaller resolutions, such as
cellular phones. Sometimes, newer dialogs and messages are added to the
user interface to complement a new feature or to “brand” it for their
audience. Since the source code is, well, open, these companies can
tweak things to their heart’s content and in the end, they can ship
their product, make their profit, end of the story.

However, the story does not not have to end here. Some companies are
very proactive and try their best to be a first class citizen and give
back to the upstream projects, whether by sending in patches or even
providing translations. The keyword here is “try”, as the way back
upstream is not as straight forward as one would hope.

A good example of a project using upstream projects is the
`Ubuntu <http://www.ubuntu.com>`__ distribution, synonym of innovation
and ease of use, with its massive number of collaborators and even paid
developers. Contrary to what most GNU/Linux distributions do, Ubuntu
goes through the cumbersome task of importing applications from every
possible upstream project (think **GNOME**, **KDE**, **LXDE**, **Xfce**,
etc) into their own repositories, and then making changes and
improvements to a variety of packages across the board.

They also expose the majority of its repository for translation in order
to fill in the gaps for any untranslated or doubtful (or in the
translators jargon, *fuzzy*) strings that came from upstream. Ubuntu
enjoys of a huge team of translators who day in, day out use its
`Rosetta <https://launchpad.net/rosetta>`__ online translation tool to
make sure your desktop can “speak” as many different languages as
possible.

When the smoke clears after the six month cycle that takes to finish a
Ubuntu release, the end product is a first class distribution so
intuitive and complete that even your grandmother could use!

Now, it has been a while since I last participated in any Ubuntu
activity, but I remember that sending Rosetta-based translations back to
the corresponding upstream project can be a very painful if not
frustrating experience for the most upbeat and well intentioned
translator. Sure, there are concerns about the quality of the
translations being generated by Rosetta translators, but even in the
situations where accepting translations could mean adding a brand new
language to the upstream project, getting downstream translations to
swim upstream is very hard!

One of the existing problems is the fact that there is not a simple,
well defined structure for sending translations to upstream projects.

Some projects prefer to receive patches attached to a bug report
properly filed against their issue tracking system. Someone, usually an
approved member of a language team, needs to verify the issue, validate
the patch and either commit it to the repository, or decline it and
(hopefully) provide a reason for the rejection.

Some have come to rely on other translation specific “platforms” such as
`Pootle <http://translate.sourceforge.net/wiki/pootle/index>`__ and
`Transifex <http://transifex.net>`__, and prefer that anyone who wants
to contribute should register with these systems first and join an
existing translation team. Between registering a new account, learning a
new system and getting to know a new team, it could take a long, long
time to get your patches approved.

There is also the fact that the many different language teams within any
given upstream projects operate almost that autonomously with their own
set of rules e processes, adding even more to the complexity of “giving
back”.

So, just how can someone working on a downstream project give back to
their translation effort of upstream projects? Keep your eyes peeled
here for the next part of this story.
